<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1253_204_70_T48_5054237111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1253.204-70</ph> Administrative matters - agency specified forms.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following forms are prescribed for use in the closeout of applicable contracts, as specified in 1204.804-570:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Department of Transportation (DOT) Form DOT F 4220.4, Contractor's Release.</i> Form DOT F 4220.4 is authorized for local reproduction and a copy may be obtained at <i>https://www.transportation.gov/assistant-secretary-administration/procurement/tar-part-1253-forms.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Form DOT F 4220.45, Contractor's Assignment of Refunds, Rebates, Credits, and Other Amounts.</i> Form DOT F 4220.45 is authorized for local reproduction and a copy may be obtained at <i>https://www.transportation.gov/assistant-secretary-administration/procurement/tar-part-1253-forms.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Form DOT F 4220.46, Cumulative Claim and Reconciliation Statement.</i> Form DOT F 4220.46 is authorized for local reproduction and a copy may be obtained at <i>https://www.transportation.gov/assistant-secretary-administration/procurement/tar-part-1253-forms.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Department of Defense DD Form 882, Report of Inventions and Subcontracts.</i> DD Form 882 can be found at <i>https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/.</i>


                              </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
