<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_222_72_T48_50542362124">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.222-72</ph> Contractor Cooperation in Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Harassment Investigations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1222.810–70, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Contractor Cooperation in Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti–harassment Investigations (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause—
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Complaint</i> means a formal or informal complaint that has been filed with DOT management, DOT agency Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) officials, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) or a court of competent jurisdiction.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contractor employee</i> means all current Contractor employees who work or worked under this contract. The term also includes current employees of subcontractors who work or worked under this contract. In the case of Contractor and subcontractor employees who worked under this contract, but who are no longer employed by the Contractor or subcontractor, or who have been assigned to another entity within the Contractor's or subcontractor's organization, the Contractor shall provide DOT with that employee's last known mailing address, email address, and telephone number, if that employee has been identified as a witness in an EEO or Anti-Harassment complaint or investigation.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Good faith cooperation</i> means, but is not limited to, making Contractor employees available, with the presence or assistance of counsel as deemed appropriate by the Contractor, for:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Formal and informal interviews by EEO counselors, the OFCCP, or other Agency officials processing EEO or Anti-Harassment complaints;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Formal or informal interviews by EEO investigators charged with investigating complaints of unlawful discrimination filed by Federal employees;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(3) Reviewing and signing appropriate affidavits or declarations summarizing statements provided by such Contractor employees during EEO or Anti-Harassment investigations;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(4) Producing documents requested by EEO counselors, EEO investigators, OFCCP investigators, Agency employees, or the EEOC in connection with a pending EEO or Anti-Harassment complaint; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(5) Preparing for and providing testimony in depositions or in hearings before the Merit Systems Protection Board, EEOC, OFCCP, and U.S. District Court.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Cooperation with investigations.</i> In addition to complying with the clause at FAR 52.222–26, Equal Opportunity, the Contractor shall, in good faith, cooperate with the Department of Transportation in investigations of EEO complaints processed pursuant to 29 CFR part 1614 and internal Anti-Harassment investigations.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Compliance.</i> Failure on the part of the Contractor or its subcontractors to comply with the terms of this clause may be grounds for the Contracting Officer to terminate this contract for default or for cause in accordance with the termination clauses in the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Subcontract flowdown.</i> The Contractor shall include the provisions of this clause in all subcontract solicitations and subcontracts awarded, at any tier, under this contract.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
