<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_237_70_T48_50542362140">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.237-70</ph> Qualifications of Contractor Employees.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1237.110-70(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Qualifications of Contractor Employees (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition. Sensitive information,</i> as used in this clause, means any information that is proprietary data or, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss, or misuse, could adversely affect the national interest, the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy of individuals specified in The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, but has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Work under this contract may involve access to DOT facilities or sensitive information or resources (<i>e.g.,</i> information technology including computer systems). To protect sensitive information, which shall not be disclosed by the contractor unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall provide training to any contractor employees authorized to access sensitive information, and upon request of the Government, provide information to assist the Government in determining an individual's suitability to have authorization.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contracting Officer may require dismissal from work under this contract of those employees deemed incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable, or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or Program Manager's (PM) request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted or subject to other investigations as required.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall ensure that contractor employees working on this contract are citizens of the United States of America or non-citizens who have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) documentation.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) Subcontract flow-down requirement. The Contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts whenever this clause is included in the prime contractor's contract.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
