<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1233_214_T48_5053925212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1233.214</ph> Alternative dispute resolution (ADR).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADRA) of 1990, Public Law 101–552, as reauthorized by the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADRA) of 1996, Public Law 104–320, authorizes and encourages agencies to use mediation, conciliation, arbitration, and other techniques for the prompt and informal resolution of disputes, either before or after appeal, and for other purposes. ADR procedures may be used when—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) There is mutual consent by the parties to participate in the ADR process (with consent being obtained either before or after an issue in controversy has arisen); and either
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Prior to the submission of a claim; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) In resolution of a formal claim.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Use of ADR shall be coordinated with counsel. For all matters filed with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA), the CBCA Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures contained in 48 CFR 6101.54 shall be followed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For other matters, pursuant to the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADRA), DOT has appointed a Dispute Resolution Specialist, who is responsible for the operations of the Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution. The Center may provide an internal DOT neutral agreeable to the parties to conduct any of the alternative means of dispute resolution set forth in the ADRA, 5 U.S.C. 571(3), on a non-reimbursable basis for DOT operating administrations and their contracting partners. Alternative means of dispute resolution include settlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, fact-finding, mini-trials, and arbitration, or any combination of these methods. The Center may also arrange for an external public or private neutral at the parties' expense.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
