<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1239_7001_T48_5054030312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1239.7001</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As used in this subpart—
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Adequate security</i> means protective measures that are commensurate with the consequences and probability of loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to, or modification of information.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Contractor attributional/proprietary information</i> means information that identifies the contractor(s), whether directly or indirectly, by the grouping of information that can be traced back to the contractor(s) (<i>e.g.,</i> program description, facility locations), personally identifiable information, as well as trade secrets, commercial or financial information, or other commercially sensitive information that is not customarily shared outside of the company.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Contractor information system</i> means an unclassified information system that is owned, or operated by or for, a contractor and that processes, stores, or transmits DOT sensitive information.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Cyber incident</i> means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in a compromise or an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>DOT sensitive data</i> means unclassified information that requires safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with law, regulations, and Governmentwide policies, and is—
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Marked or otherwise identified in the contract, task order, or delivery order and provided to the contractor by or on behalf of DOT in support of the performance of the contract; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Collected, developed, received, transmitted, used, or stored by or on behalf of the contractor in support of the performance of the contract.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Rapidly report</i> means reporting within two (2) hours of discovery of any cyber incident.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Technical information</i> means recorded information, regardless of the form or method of the recording, of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation). The term does not include computer software or data incidental to contract administration, such as financial and/or management information. Examples of technical information include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, technical orders, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses and related information, and computer software executable code and source code.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
