<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1219_800_T48_5053817511">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1219.800</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Small Business Administration (SBA) and Department of Transportation (DOT) have entered into a Partnership Agreement (PA) delegating SBA's contract execution and administrative functions to DOT. Contracting officers shall follow the alternate procedures in this subpart, as applicable, to award 8(a) contracts under the PA. (<i>See https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.dev/files/docs/Department%20of%20Transportation_Partnership%20Agreement.pdf.</i>)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The SBA delegates only the authority to sign contracts on its behalf. Consistent with the provisions of the PA, the SBA remains the prime contractor on all 8(a) contracts, continues to determine eligibility of concerns for contract award, and retains appeal rights under FAR 19.810.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The PA sets forth the delegation of authority and establishes the basic procedures for expediting the award of 8(a) contract requirements as reflected in this subpart.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracts awarded under the PA may be awarded directly to the 8(a) participant on either a sole source or competitive basis. An SBA signature on the contract is not required. <i>See</i> FAR 19.811-3 for contract clauses to use.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
