<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1235_070_T48_5054027014">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1235.070</ph> Research misconduct.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Applicability.</i> DOT policy on scientific integrity is implemented in the Deputy Secretary's memorandum dated April 10, 2012, Implementation of Departmental Scientific Integrity Policy at <i>https://www.transportation.gov/administrations/assistant-secretary-research-and-technology/memorandum-implementation-departmental.</i> The Department is dedicated to preserving the integrity of the research it conducts and funds and will not tolerate misconduct in the performance of these activities. This policy applies to all DOT-funded or DOT-conducted research, including intramural research, research conducted by contractors, and research performed at research institutions, including universities and industry.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Definition. Research misconduct</i> means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results. Research misconduct does not include honest error or differences of opinion. A finding of research misconduct means a determination based on a preponderance of the evidence that research misconduct has occurred, including a conclusion that there has been a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community and that it was knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly committed.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
