<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1239_7201_T48_5054030512">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1239.7201</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As used in this subpart - 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Authorizing official</i> means the senior Federal official or executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Cloud computing</i> means a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (<i>e.g.,</i> networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. This includes other commercial terms, such as on-demand self-service, broad network access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service. It also includes commercial offerings for software-as-a-service, infrastructure-as-a-service, and platform-as-a-service.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Government data</i> means any information, document, media, or machine-readable material regardless of physical form or characteristics, that is created or obtained by the Government in the course of official Government business.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Government-related data</i> means any information, document, media, or machine-readable material regardless of physical form or characteristics that is created or obtained by a contractor through the storage, processing, or communication of Government data. This does not include a contractor's business records (<i>e.g.,</i> financial records, legal records, and other similar records) or data such as operating procedures, software coding, or algorithms that are not uniquely applied to the Government data.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
