<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1233_211_T48_5053925211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1233.211</ph> Contracting officer's decision.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)(4)(v) In accordance with FAR 33.211(a)(4)(i) through (vi), contracting officers shall include in a statement of the contracting officer's decision referenced at FAR 33.211(a)(4)(iv), paragraphs substantially as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">“This is the final decision of the Contracting Officer. You may appeal this decision to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals. If you decide to appeal, you must, within 90 days from the date you receive this decision, mail or otherwise furnish written notice to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals as set forth below and provide a copy to the Contracting Officer from whose decision this appeal is taken. The notice shall indicate that an appeal is intended, reference this decision, and identify the contract by number.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Where to File:</i> All filings must be submitted to the Clerk of the Board. Filings shall be to Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, 1800 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20405 in any of the ways as set forth at their website at <i>https://cbca.gov/howto/index.html.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">With regard to appeals to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, you may, solely at your election, proceed under the board's—
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Small claim procedure for claims of $50,000 or less or, in the case of a small business concern (as defined in the Small Business Act and regulations under that Act), $150,000 or less; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Accelerated procedure for claims of $100,000 or less.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">Instead of appealing to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, you may bring an action directly in the United States Court of Federal Claims (except as provided in 41 U.S.C. 7102(d), regarding Maritime Contracts) within 12 months of the date you receive this decision.”</p>
                              </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
