<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_239_85_T48_50542362159">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.239-85</ph> Personnel Screening—Background Investigations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1239.7204(j), insert the clause as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Personnel Screening—Background Investigations (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contractors shall provide support personnel who are U.S. persons maintaining a NACI clearance or greater in accordance with OMB memorandum M–05–24, Section C (<i>see https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/memoranda/2005/m05-24.pdf</i>).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall furnish documentation reflecting favorable adjudication of background investigations for all personnel supporting the system. The Contractor shall also comply with Executive Order 12968, Access to Classified Information. DOT separates the risk levels for personnel working on Federal computer systems into three categories: low risk, moderate risk, and high risk. The Contractor is responsible for the cost of meeting all security requirements and maintaining assessment and authorization.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor's employees with access to DOT systems containing sensitive information may be required to obtain security clearances (<i>i.e.,</i> Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret). National Security work designated “special sensitive,” “critical sensitive,” or “non-critical sensitive,” will determine the level of clearance required for contractor employees. Personnel security clearances for national security contracts in DOT will be processed according to the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contracting Officer, through the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or Program Manager will ensure that all required information is forwarded to the Federal Protective Service (FPS) in accordance with the DOT Policy. FPS will then contact each Applicant with instructions for completing required forms and releases for the type of personnel investigation requested.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) Applicants will not be reinvestigated if a prior favorable adjudication is on file with FPS, OPM or DoD, there has been no break in service, and the position is identified at the same or lower risk level. Once a favorable FBI Criminal History Check (Fingerprint Check) has been returned, Applicants may receive a DOT identity credential (if required) and initial access to information systems holding DOT information.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
