<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1232_905_70_T48_5053924211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1232.905-70</ph> Payment documentation and process—form of invoice.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Under fixed-price contracts, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to submit an invoice or voucher on any form or format meeting FAR 32.905(b) requirements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Under other than fixed-price contracts, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to submit the Standard Form (SF) 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, and the SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet), to request payments. The forms must be completed as required by figure 1 to this section, Instructions for Completing the SF 1034, and figure 2 to this section, Instructions for Completing the SF 1035.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Figure 1 to 1232.905–70
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD2">Instructions for Completing the SF 1034
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">The SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, shall be completed in accordance with the below instructions. The numbered items correspond to the entries on the form.
</p>
         <p xtrc="DIV">
                                 
                                    <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1">Caption on the SF 1034
</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2">Data to be inserted in the block
</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">1. U.S. DEPARTMENT, BUREAU, OR ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Name and address of the contracting office which issued the contract.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">2. DATE VOUCHER PREPARED</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Date voucher submitted to the designated billing office cited under the contract or order.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">3. CONTRACT NO. AND DATE</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Contract No. and, when applicable, the Order No. and date as shown on the award document.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">4. REQUISITION NO. AND DATE</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Leave blank or fill-in in accordance with the instructions in the contract.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">5. VOUCHER NO</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Start with “1” and number consecutively. A separate series of consecutive numbers must be used beginning with “1” for each

contract number or order number (when applicable). Note: Insert the word “FINAL” if this is the last voucher.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">6. SCHEDULE NO.; PAID BY; DATE INVOICE RECEIVED; DISCOUNT TERMS; PAYEE'S ACCOUNT NO.; SHIPPED FROM/TO; WEIGHT; GOVERNMENT B/L</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Leave all these blocks blank.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">7. PAYEE'S NAME AND ADDRESS</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Name and address of contractor as it appears on the contract. If the contract is assigned to a bank, also show “CONTRACT ASSIGNED” below the name and address of the contractor.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">8. NUMBER AND DATE OF ORDER</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Leave blank. (See #3 above.).
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">9. DATE OF DELIVERY OR SERVICE</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">The period for which the incurred costs are being claimed (e.g., month and year; beginning and ending date of services, etc.).
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">10. ARTICLES OR SERVICES</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Insert the following: “For detail, see the total amount of the claim transferred from the attached SF 1035, page X of X.” One space below this line, insert the following: “COST REIMBURSABLE–PROVISIONAL PAYMENT.”
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">11. QUANTITY; UNIT PRICE; (COST; PER)</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Leave blank.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">12. AMOUNT</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Insert the total amount claimed from the last page of the SF 1035.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">Payee must NOT use the space below</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">Do NOT write or type below this line.</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                 
                              </p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Figure 2 to 1232.905–70
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD2">Instructions for Completing the SF 1035
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">The SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet), shall be completed in accordance with the below instructions.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">1. Use the same basic instructions for the SF 1035 as used for the SF 1034. Ensure that the contract and, if applicable, order number, are shown on each continuation sheet. Use as many sheets as necessary to show the information required by the contract, contracting officer, or responsible audit agency; however, if more than one sheet of SF 1035 is used, each sheet shall be in numerical sequence.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">2. The following items are generally entered below the line with Number and Date of Order; Date of Delivery or Service; Articles or Services; Quantity; Unit Price; and Amount (but do not necessarily tie to these captions).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">3. Description of data to be inserted as it applies to the contract or order number including the CLIN or SLIN.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">a. Show, as applicable, the target or estimated costs, target or fixed-fee, and total contract value, as adjusted by any modifications to the contract or order. The FAR permits the contracting officer to withhold a percentage of fixed fee until a reserve is set aside in an amount that is considered necessary to protect the Government's interest.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">b. Show the following costs and supporting data (as applicable) to the contract or order:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Direct Labor.</i> List each labor category, rate per labor hour, hours worked, and extended total labor dollars per labor category.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) <i>Premium Pay/Overtime.</i> List each labor category, rate per labor hour, hours worked, and the extended total labor dollars per labor category. <i>Note:</i> Advance written authorization must be received from the contracting officer to work overtime or to pay premium rates; therefore, identify the contracting officer's written authorization to the contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) <i>Fringe Benefits.</i> If fringe benefits are included in the overhead pool, no entry is required. If the contract allows for a separate fringe benefit pool, cite the formula (rate and base) in effect during the time the costs were incurred. If the contract allows for billing fringe benefits as a direct expense, show the actual fringe benefit costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) <i>Materials, Supplies, Equipment.</i> Show those items normally treated as direct costs. Expendable items need not be itemized and may be grouped into major classifications such as office supplies. However, items valued at $5,000 or more must be itemized. <i>See</i> FAR part 45, Government Property, for reporting of property.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(5) <i>Travel.</i> List the name and title of traveler, place of travel, and travel dates. If the travel claim is based on the actual costs expended, show the amount for the mode of travel (<i>i.e.,</i> airline, private auto, taxi, etc.), lodging, meals, and other incidental expenses separately, on a daily basis. These actual costs must be supported with receipts to substantiate the costs paid. Travel costs for consultants must be shown separately and also supported.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(6) <i>Other Direct Costs.</i> Itemize those costs that cannot be placed in categories 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			through (5) above. Categorize these costs to the extent possible.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(7) <i>Total Direct Costs.</i> Cite the sum of categories 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			through (6) above.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(8) <i>Overhead.</i> Cite the rate, base, and extended amount.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(9) <i>G&amp;A Expense.</i> Cite the rate, base, and extended amount.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(10) <i>Total Costs.</i> Cite the sum of categories (7) through (9) above.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(11) <i>Fee.</i> Cite the rate, base, and extended amount.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(12) <i>Total Cost and Fee Claimed.</i> Enter this amount on the SF 1034.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Completion Voucher
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">The completion (final) voucher is the last voucher to be submitted for incurred, allocable, and allowable costs expended to perform the contract or order. This voucher should include all contract reserves, allowable cost withholdings, balance of fixed fee, etc. However, the amount of the completion voucher when added to the total amount previously paid cannot exceed the total amount of the contract.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
