<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_209_70_T48_5054236213">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.209-70</ph> Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1209.507–270(a), the contracting officer shall insert a clause substantially as follows in solicitations and contracts:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) An offeror shall identify in its proposal, quote, bid or any resulting contract, any potential or actual Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest (OCCI) as described in FAR subpart 9.5. This includes actual or potential conflicts of interests of proposed subcontractors. If an offeror identifies in its proposal, quote, bid or any resulting contract, a potential or actual conflict of interests the offeror shall submit an Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest Plan (OCCIP) to the contracting officer. The OCCIP shall describe how the offeror addresses potential or actual conflicts of interest and identify how they will avoid, neutralize, or mitigate present or future conflicts of interest.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Offerors must consider whether their involvement and participation raises any OCCI issues, especially in the following areas when:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Providing systems engineering and technical direction.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Preparing specifications or work statements and/or objectives.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Providing evaluation services.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Obtaining access to proprietary information.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) If a prime contractor or subcontractor breaches any of the OCCI restrictions, or does not disclose or misrepresents any relevant facts concerning its conflict of interest, the government may take appropriate action, including terminating the contract, in additional to any remedies that may be otherwise permitted by the contract or operation of law.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
