<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_239_73_T48_50542362147">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.239-73</ph> Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Third-Party Contractor Reported Cyber Incident Information.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1239.7003(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Third-Party Contractor Reported Cyber Incident Information (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause - 
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Compromise</i> means disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, or a violation of the security policy of a system, whereby without authorization information is disclosed, modified, destroyed, lost, or copied to unauthorized media - whether intentionally or unintentionally.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>DOT sensitive data</i> means unclassified information that requires safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with law, regulations, and Governmentwide policies, and is - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Marked or otherwise identified in the contract, task order, or delivery order and provided to the Contractor by or on behalf of DOT in support of the performance of the contract; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Collected, developed, received, transmitted, used, or stored by or on behalf of the Contractor in support of the performance of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Cyber incident</i> means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in a compromise or an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Information system</i> means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Media</i> means physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration memory chips, and printouts onto which DOT sensitive data is recorded, stored, or printed within a covered contractor information system.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>DOT technical information</i> means recorded information, regardless of the form or method of the recording, of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation). The term does not include computer software or data incidental to contract administration, such as financial and/or management information. Examples of technical information include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, technical orders, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses and related information, and computer software executable code and source code.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Restrictions.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor agrees that the following conditions apply to any information it receives or creates in the performance of this contract derived from a third-party's reporting of a cyber incident, pursuant to TAR clause, 1252.239-74, Safeguarding DOT Sensitive Data and Cyber Incident Reporting (or derived from such information obtained under that clause):
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall access and use the information only for the purpose of furnishing advice or technical assistance directly to the Government in support of the Government's activities related to clause 1252.239-74, Safeguarding DOT Sensitive Data and Cyber Incident Reporting, and shall not be used for any other purpose.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor shall protect the information against unauthorized release or disclosure.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor shall ensure that its employees are subject to use and non-disclosure obligations consistent with this clause prior to the employees being provided access to or use of the information.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) The third-party contractor that reported the cyber incident is a third-party beneficiary of the non-disclosure agreement between the Government and Contractor, as required by paragraph (b)(3) of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(6) A breach of these obligations or restrictions may subject the Contractor to - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Criminal, civil, administrative, and contractual penalties and other appropriate remedies; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Civil actions for damages and other appropriate remedies by the third party that reported the cyber incident, as a third-party beneficiary of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Subcontract flowdown requirement.</i> The Contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts, or similar contractual instruments, for services that include support for the Government's activities related to safeguarding covered DOT sensitive data and cyber incident reporting, including subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services, without alteration, except to identify the parties.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
