<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_228_74_T48_50542362133">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.228-74</ph> Notification of Payment Bond Protection.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in guidance at 1228.106-470, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Notification of Payment Bond Protection (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) The prime contract is subject to the Bonds statute (historically referred to as the Miller Act) (40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter III), under which the prime contractor has obtained a payment bond. This payment bond may provide certain unpaid employees, suppliers, and subcontractors a right to sue the bonding surety under the Bonds statute for amounts owned for work performed and materials delivery under the prime contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Persons believing that they have legal remedies under the Bonds statute should consult their legal advisor regarding the proper steps to take to obtain these remedies. This notice clause does not provide any party any rights against the Federal Government, or create any relationship, contractual or otherwise, between the Federal Government and any private party.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The surety which has provided the payment bond under the prime contract is: [<i>Contracting Officer fill-in prime contractor's surety information</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="FP">(Name)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="FP">(Street Address)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="FP">(City, State, Zip Code)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="FP">(Contact &amp; Tel. No.)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP">(d) Subcontract flowdown requirements. This clause shall be flowed down to all subcontractors. Prime contractors shall insert this notice clause in all first-tier subcontracts and shall require the clause to be subsequently flowed down by all first-tier subcontractors to all their subcontractors, at any tier. This notice contains information pertaining to the surety that provided the payment bond under the prime contract and is required to be inserted in its entirety to include the information set forth in paragraph (c).</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
